hi I'm corrosion gully with angle e.com
I'm going to give you some tips on what
we mean by proportion in art generally
speaking proportion in art refers to two
different things one is the natural
relationship of the different parts of
an object and by that we are referring
to the fact that the painter or the
artist creates those proportions in such
a way that when spectator looks at an a
piece of art he or she can see it as
real as possible for instance in this
painting you can see that the
proportions of the head and the the
torso and the other other body parts are
are natural and real therefore the
spectator looks at this painting and
sees a real figure standing in front of
him or her whereas if we make the
distortions in different parts of the
body we can manipulate the figure in
such a way that it doesn't look natural
but it gets closer to our idea and our
subject matter and what especially
philosophically we want to put on the
canvas or the ground the surface
whatever it is the second definition of
proportion is the difference of the
sizes of different objects on the
surface of the canvas or or the ground
that means the object which is closer to
you is usually larger than the object
which is further away from you and for
instance in this painting you can see
the same bird getting smaller and
smaller as it gets away from us now
proportion in this manner can be played
around with for instance in this drawing
I have manipulated the proportion to
create a different and somewhat
quote/unquote unnatural approach to my
subject matter the figure of this body
lying on top of the mountain although
the proportions of the figure itself are
natural the the relationship between the
head and the torso and the arms and leg
are natural but the size of this figure
being on top of that mountain comparing
to the ground in front of it and the
areas which are closer to us is
definitely an unnatural a body on top of
that mountain that far away cannot look
that large to us